.TH PLBKUP 8l "28 November r
.SH NAME
\fBplbkup\fR - uses  
.B pleskbackup
and 
.B lftp
on a remote host to create a full system backup and move it to an ftp
repository.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBplbkup\fR [\fB-c \fI<config_file>\fR] [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-e \fI<e-mail_rcpt>\fR] 
[\fB-l\fR] [\fB-n \fI<encryption_tool>\fR] [\fB-p \fI<remote_psa_config>\fR] [\fB-t \fI<type>\fR]
[\fB-T\fR] [\fB-v\fR] \fI<hostid>\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBplbkup\fR is a Bourne shell script which should work equally well on
all versions of UNIX, Linux and Apple Mac OS X.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The script
.BR plbkup 
invokes a
.B ssh
session to a remote host identified by \fIhostid\fR (which must be specified
on the command line) and runs the
.B pleskbackup
command to create a full system backup. The resultant tar file is compressed
with \fBgzip\fR and encrypted with \fBgpg\fR before being transferred using 
.B lftp
to an \fBftp\fR repository.
.B Lftp
is used rather than the built in ftp transfer agent in 
.B pleskbackup
for no better reason than that it works, whereas, for me at least, the latter
does not.
.LP
The 
.I hostid
may be a \fIhost name\fR but I have found it far easier in this age of
one way DNS lookups, long generic service provider canonical hostnames et al, to
use a short host id that can be used in lookup tables and mapped in
host files or the local DNS (where there is a split horizon).
.LP
The script is most useful when invoked by
.BR cron .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B -c
.I <config_file>
The default configuration file is
.IR /usr/local/etc/plbkup.cf .
An alternative file may be set with the
.B -c 
option.
.TP 5
.B -d
Set \fIdebug\fR mode on.
.TP 5
\fB-e \fI<e-mail_rcpt>\fR
Notifications and alerts will be sent to the mail address specified at
.IR e-mail_recipient .
If the 
.B -e
option is not used
.B plbkup
will attempt to send the email alert to the user invoking the command on the
local host.
.TP
\fB-l\fR
Use the \fBsyslog\fR logging facility to record the use of 
.B plbkup 
and it's success or failure.
.TP 5
\fB-n \fI<encryption_tool>\fR
Encrypt the archive before transfering to the ftp repository using the
specified encryption tool.
.TP 5
\fB-p \fI<remote psa configuration file>
.B plbkup 
graps a copy of the current psa configuration file from the remote host and
processes it locally each time the command is run.
.TP 5
\fB-t \fI<type>\fR
.br
The default backup \fItype\fR is a full plesk \fIserver\fR backup, other
backup types (objects) can be specified on the command line. See 
.B pleskbackup
documentation).
.TP 5
.B -T
Puts the script in test mode. Access and availabilty of all the components
is checked but the actual backup, which might take several hours, is assumed
to have completed successfully without actually having been built.
.TP 5
.B -v
Set the operation mode of the script to 
.IR verbose .
In
.I verbose
mode
.B plbkup
will report it's progress as it runs and will write any alerts to 
\fIstandard out\fR. 
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
.ft CW
plbkup -l -e sysop@citylinux.com fcl 
.fi
.ft R
.LP
Create a full backup of \fBfcl\fR's host (Fulford Consulting Ltd) and 
transfer it to the associated \fBftp\fR repository. Use the local
.B syslog
facility to log the command and it's success or failure.
.LP
Send notifications and alerts to 
.IR sysop@citylinux.com .
.IP
.nf
.ft CW
plbkup -v cwit
.fi
.ft R
.LP
Create a full backup of the host associated with "City Windows IT" (\fBcwit\fR)
and transfer the resulting file to the associated 
.B ftp
repository. Use 
.I verbose
mode and report significant actions to standard out.
send alerts by email to the current user's local e-mail address.
.LP
Notifications and alerts will be emailed to the user on the local host.
.SH BUGS
The script has very little input error checking.
Network availability is not checked prior to invoking 
.B ssh
commands. The script is designed to be used
with frequently used hosts where
.B ssh 
keys have already been exchanged.
.SH FILES
\fI/usr/local/etc/plbkup.cf\fR,
\fI/tmp/psaconf.$$\fR - a local copy of the remote psa.conf. Normally
removed on completion, if the script fails the file will remain on the
local system.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR ftchbkup ,
.IR rclean .
.SH AUTHOR
Clifford W Fulford, City Linux. Contact fulford@fulford.net or +44 (0)709 229 5385.
